---
layout: post
title: Cronuts
date: '2014-02-10 11:46:00'
---

*Had to see what all the hype was about. Boy was I pleasantly surprised.*

> 60 ml warm milk       
> 65 ml warm water     
> 6g dried yeast     
> 150g cold, cubed butter     
> 160g flour     
> 30g white sugar     
> 1/2 tsp salt     

* Whisk milk, water and yeast together in a large plastic bowl. Let sit for 10 minutes to activate yeast.
* Combine salt and white sugar.
* Add butter to flour and combine with your fingers until the mixture resembles a coarse meal. Don’t go crazy, lumps of butter are good and will help create a luscious, layered texture.
* Add sugar/salt to flour/butter. Pour combination into the milk/water/yeast.
* Stir with a spatula until a shaggy ball forms. If the mixture is too sticky, add tablespoons of flour at a time to coax it into a ball.
Turn out onto a floured work surface and pat into a thick oval. Wrap in plastic wrap and let sit in fridge for 1.5-2 hours. Touch it as little as possible.
* Remove plastic wrap and roll into a 1cm thick rectangle. Fold the dough into thirds, first bringing the top third down over the middle and then bringing the bottom third up over the middle.
* Rotate 90 degrees, roll out, and then fold into thirds again.
* Repeat the process twice more.
* Cover with plastic wrap and let rise for 5-7 hours, or overnight, in the fridge.
* Roll out the dough again, to a ~1/8″ thick rectangle.  You should be able to get 8 cronuts out of the first roll, plus 4-6 more if you re-roll the scraps of dough. You can also fry the holes!
* Use cookie cutters to cut out cronuts and their centers. Transfer to a floured sheet pan to rise for another hour at room temperature, covered with a cloth.
* Near the end of the rise period, fill a large pan with canola oil approximately ~1/2-3/4″ deep. If you’re making glaze, start that now too (see below for recipes). Heat the oil over low-medium heat.
* Fry cronuts, without crowding, for ~2 minutes on each side. You’re shooting for a lovely golden color, not too dark.
* Remove from oil and let cool on paper towels.
* Drizzle with glaze and sprinkles.